What is a data stream?
After this video,
you will be able to summarize the key
characteristics of a data stream.
Identify the requirements of
streaming data systems, and
recognize the data streams
you use in your life.
When we talked about how
big data is generated and
the characteristics of the big
data using sound waves.
One of the challenges we mentioned was the
velocity of data coming in varying rates.
For some applications this
presents the need to process data
as it is generated, or
in other words, as it streams.
We call these types of applications
Streaming Data Processing Applications.
This terminology refers to a constant
stream of data flowing from a source,
for example data from a sensory machine or
data from social media.
An example application would be making
data-driven marketing decisions in
real time.
Through the use of data from
real-time sales trends,
social media analysis,
and sales distributions.
Another example for streaming data
processing is monitoring of industrial or
farming machinery in real time.
For monitoring and
detection of potential system failures.
In fact, any sensor network or
internet of things environment
controlled by another entity,
or set of entities falls
under this category.
For example,
as you have seen in an earlier video,
FlightStats is an application.
That processes about 60
million weekly flight events
that come into their
data acquisition system.
And turns it into real-time
intelligence for airlines and
millions of travelers
around the world daily.
So, how then do we define a data stream?
A stream is defined as
a possibly unbounded sequence of
data items or records.
That may or may not be related to,
or correlated with each other.
Each data is generally timestamped and
in some cases geo-tagged.
As you have seen in our examples,
the data can stream from many sources.
Including instruments, and
many internet of things application areas,
computer programs, websites,
or social media posts.
Streaming data sometimes get
referred to as event data as
each data item is treated as an individual
event in a synchronized sequence.
Streams pose very difficult challenges for
conventional data
management architectures.
Which are built primarily on the concept
of persistence, static data collections.
Due to the fact that most often we
have only one chance to look at and
process streaming data
before more gets piled on.
Streaming data management systems cannot
be separated from real-time processing
of data.
Managing and
processing data in motion is a typical
capability of streaming data systems.
However, the sheer size, variety and
velocity of big data adds further
challenges to these systems.
Such systems are designed to manage
relatively simple computations.
Such as one record at a time or
a set of objects in a short time
window of the most recent data.
The computations are done
in near-real-time,
sometimes in memory, and
as independent computations.
The processing components
often subscribe to a system,
or a stream source, non-interactively.
This means they sent nothing
back to the source, nor
did they establish
interaction with the source.
The concept of dynamic steering involves
dynamically changing the next steps or
direction of an application
through a continuous
computational process using streaming.
Dynamic steering is often a part of
streaming data management and processing.
A self-driving car is a perfect example
of a dynamic steering application.
But all streaming data applications
fall into this category.
Such as the online gaming example we
discussed earlier in this course.
Amazon Kinesis an other open-source Apache
projects like Storm, Flink,
Spark Streaming, and
Samza are examples of big
data streaming systems.
Many other companies also
provide streaming systems for
big data that are frequently
updated in response
to the rapidly changing
nature of these technologies.
As a summary, dynamic near-real-time
streaming data management,
processing, and steering is an important
part of today's big data applications.
Next, we will look at some
of the challenges for
streaming data management and processing.